README.md, before:

# Robobit
 Package for Microsoft Makecode

This library provides a Microsoft Makecode package for the Robobit Buggy, see
https://4tronix.co.uk/robobit/

## Driving the robot    
The simplest way to drive robot is by using the `driveMilliseconds(...)` and `driveTurnMilliseconds(...)` blocks.   
Note with `driveMilliseconds(...)`, you can specify a negative speed to reverse.   
```blocks
// Drive forward for 2000 ms
robobit.driveMilliseconds(1023, 2000)

// Drive backwards for 2000 ms
robobit.driveMilliseconds(-1023, 2000)

// Turn left for 200 ms
robobit.driveTurnMilliseconds(BBRobotDirection.Left, 1023, 200)

// Turn right for 200 ms
robobit.driveTurnMilliseconds(BBRobotDirection.Right, 1023, 200)
```   

These blocks are also available in non blocking version. The following example performs the same operation as above.   
```blocks
robobit.drive(1023)
basic.pause(1000)

robobit.drive(0)
basic.pause(1000)

robobit.driveTurn(BBRobotDirection.Left, 1023)
basic.pause(250)

robobit.driveTurn(BBRobotDirection.Right, 1023)
basic.pause(250)

robobit.drive(0)
```

## Driving the motor

If you want more fine grain control of individal motors, use `robobit.motor(..)` to drive motor either forward or reverse. The value
indicates speed and is between `-1023` to `1023`. Minus indicates reverse.

```blocks
// Drive 1000 ms forward
robobit.motor(BBMotor.All, 1023);
basic.pause(1000);

// Drive 1000 ms reverse
robobit.motor(BBMotor.All, -1023);
basic.pause(1000);

// Drive 1000 ms forward on left and reverse on right
robobit.motor(BBMotor.Left, 1023);
robobit.motor(BBMotor.Right, -1023);
basic.pause(1000);
```

## Read line sensor

The Robobit (optionally) has two line-sensors: left and right. To read the value of the
sensors, use `robobit.readLine(..)` function.

```blocks
// Read left and right line sensor
let left = robobit.readLine(BBLineSensor.Left);
let right = robobit.readLine(BBLineSensor.Right);
```

## Read sonar value

If you have mounted the optional sonar sensor for the Robobit you can
also use the `robobit.sonar(..)` function to read the distance to obstacles.

```blocks
// Read sonar values
let v1 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.MicroSeconds);
let v2 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.Centimeters);
let v3 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.Inches);
```

## NeoPixel helpers

The Robobit optionally has 8 NeoPixels mounted on a LEDBar. This library defines some helpers
for using the NeoPixels.

```blocks
// Show all leds
robobit.setColor(neopixel.colors(NeoPixelColors.Red));
robobit.neoShow();

// Clear all leds
robobit.neoClear();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led at position 1 (0 to 7)
robobit.setPixel(1, neopixel.colors(NeoPixelColors.Red));
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow and shift
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoShift();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow and rotate
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoRotate();
robobit.neoShow();

// Set brightness of leds (0 to 255)
robobit.neoBrightness(100);
robobit.neoShow();

// Use scanner update regularly in forever loop
robobit.ledScan();
robobit.neoShow();

// Define your own colours using convertRGB(red, green, blue)
robobit.setColor(robobit.convertRGB(40, 50, 200));
robobit.neoShow();
```

## Supported targets

* for PXT/microbit

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add support for Robobit Mk3
Verious pin changes required for Mk3 (and Mk2 with LedBar)

README.md, after:

# Robobit
 Package for Microsoft Makecode

This library provides a Microsoft Makecode package for the Robobit Buggy, see
https://4tronix.co.uk/robobit/

## Selecting the Product Version
The Robobit Buggy has evolved through Mk1, Mk2 and now Mk3. These use slightly different pins for the options sensors.
Additionally using the LedBar with Mk2 forces the Ultrasonic to change pins (not available with LedBar at time of writing)
So it is important to set the model of  Robobit at the start of the program:

```blocks
// Select Mk2 Robobit
robobit.select_model(RBModel.Mk2);
```   

## Driving the robot    
The simplest way to drive robot is by using the `driveMilliseconds(...)` and `driveTurnMilliseconds(...)` blocks.   
Note with `driveMilliseconds(...)`, you can specify a negative speed to reverse.   
```blocks
// Drive forward for 2000 ms
robobit.driveMilliseconds(1023, 2000)

// Drive backwards for 2000 ms
robobit.driveMilliseconds(-1023, 2000)

// Turn left for 200 ms
robobit.driveTurnMilliseconds(BBRobotDirection.Left, 1023, 200)

// Turn right for 200 ms
robobit.driveTurnMilliseconds(BBRobotDirection.Right, 1023, 200)
```   

These blocks are also available in non blocking version. The following example performs the same operation as above.   
```blocks
robobit.drive(1023)
basic.pause(1000)

robobit.drive(0)
basic.pause(1000)

robobit.driveTurn(BBRobotDirection.Left, 1023)
basic.pause(250)

robobit.driveTurn(BBRobotDirection.Right, 1023)
basic.pause(250)

robobit.drive(0)
```

## Driving the motor

If you want more fine grain control of individal motors, use `robobit.motor(..)` to drive motor either forward or reverse. The value
indicates speed and is between `-1023` to `1023`. Minus indicates reverse.

```blocks
// Drive 1000 ms forward
robobit.motor(BBMotor.All, 1023);
basic.pause(1000);

// Drive 1000 ms reverse
robobit.motor(BBMotor.All, -1023);
basic.pause(1000);

// Drive 1000 ms forward on left and reverse on right
robobit.motor(BBMotor.Left, 1023);
robobit.motor(BBMotor.Right, -1023);
basic.pause(1000);
```

## Read line sensor

The Robobit (optionally) has two line-sensors: left and right. To read the value of the
sensors, use `robobit.readLine(..)` function.

```blocks
// Read left and right line sensor
let left = robobit.readLine(BBLineSensor.Left);
let right = robobit.readLine(BBLineSensor.Right);
```

## Read sonar value

If you have mounted the optional sonar sensor for the Robobit you can
also use the `robobit.sonar(..)` function to read the distance to obstacles.

```blocks
// Read sonar values
let v1 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.MicroSeconds);
let v2 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.Centimeters);
let v3 = robobit.sonar(BBPingUnit.Inches);
```

## NeoPixel helpers

The Robobit optionally has 8 NeoPixels mounted on a LEDBar. This library defines some helpers
for using the NeoPixels.

```blocks
// Show all leds
robobit.setColor(neopixel.colors(NeoPixelColors.Red));
robobit.neoShow();

// Clear all leds
robobit.neoClear();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led at position 1 (0 to 7)
robobit.setPixel(1, neopixel.colors(NeoPixelColors.Red));
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow and shift
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoShift();
robobit.neoShow();

// Show led rainbow and rotate
robobit.neoRainbow();
robobit.neoRotate();
robobit.neoShow();

// Set brightness of leds (0 to 255)
robobit.neoBrightness(100);
robobit.neoShow();

// Use scanner update regularly in forever loop
robobit.ledScan();
robobit.neoShow();

// Define your own colours using convertRGB(red, green, blue)
robobit.setColor(robobit.convertRGB(40, 50, 200));
robobit.neoShow();
```

## Supported targets

* for PXT/microbit

## License

MIT
